# Reflection by 

I focused primarily on the design of the robot's physical characteristics while Isaac did the majority of the software design. We would critique each other's implementation as we ran tests on our robot. During the first week, we tried to follow a step by step guide we found online, but found that the entirety of the instructions had to be bought. Upon this realization, we decided to build the rest of the robot from scratch, modeled after a drag racing car. The hardest part about building the car was effectively translating the energy from the EV3 motors to the tires without causing our gears to slip. I placed a large gear on the drive shafts coming from the motors and a very small gear on each axel so every rotation of the driveshaft would cause the axel to rotate much faster (causing the wheels to spin faster). Isaac found a way to increase the output from the motors to their maximum, which worked great, until any resistance (the ground) was put on the wheels. First we tried to stiffen up the robot. That helped a lot, but the gears would still slip. So we decided to decrease the speed the driveshaft was spinning with the intent of placing less stress on the gears. With the lower rpm and stiffer chassis our robot exceeded our expectations for what was possible with EV3. The robot could complete all the tasks, but was not graceful doing so. If we would have implemented a touch sensor, the robot would have had a better means of stopping instead of relying only on the ultrasonic sensor, color sensor, and manual stop. We had a poor design for the obstacle race because our robot was so long. Its length combined with poor ultrasonic sensor position caused it to have a large swinging radius. We got lucky during the race to find a wider position to run it though with minimal contact with the obstacles. We had to rewrite some of our software for each race because sometimes the robot would be best suited to complete a task with the wheels facing forward and others with the wheels facing backwards.

If I had to do the project over again, I would have implemented a touch sensor for the sprit race, attached sonic ultrasonic sensors on all sides to evade unethical robots and obstacles more effectively, and would have built the robot taller to reduce overall length for the obstacle race.

I learned a lot through this process and have a new appreciation for the development of machinery. It would be interesting to see if we could design an AI to determine the best obstacle positioning to present equal difficulty for the robots' size and number of robots competing.

The implementation of aggressive and ethical behavior was largely completed by Isaac while I designed the physical robot. Something happened to our code shortly before the race that caused us to improvise the best we could with the code provided initially; making large edits between each race. I am not sure if we were able to fully integrate our intended behavior into the robot by the time each race came? However, our goal was to make our robot aggressive for the sprint and pushing races and ethical for the obstacle race. I believe we chose to program our robot to behave aggressively for the first two races because they were very similar in relation to what the robot had to perceive and its goal to move in a straight line for three meters, but once while controlling a box. We had enough trouble with trying to implement the ultrasonic sensor and long robot design together that trying to make our robot aggressive for the race would have ended with a lot of time deductions from our robot rotating. Like I said before, we got lucky for the obstacle race. Unfortunately our robot got sabotaged by another aggressive robot during the sprint race and was too far away from the other robots to exhibit aggressive behavior during the pushing race.

If I would have found a good way to make our robot shorter while having good sensor positioning, we may not have had such difficulty during the obstacles and it may have caused us how to program the behavior of our robot. 

The article "Why Ethical Robots Might Not Be Such a Good Idea After All" is a summarization of "The Dark Side of Ethical Robots" presentation from AIES 2018. It highlights three risks to consider while we are deciding whether or not to implement more "ethical" robots. They are as follows; an unscrupulous manufacturer can use these types of robots unethically for a personal gain, the settings determining the robot's ethics are adjustable, and malicious hackers can exploit these robots to do their bidding. All three ideas revolve around the idea that because people aren't always ethical and robots are designed by people, it can be inferred that unethical people will abuse software to make robots behave unethically as well. When thinking about these ideas in relation to our three races, its obvious that the robots are a direct reflection of our design and not all of our designs were good. Our robot was hit hard during one of the races by another robot, if we would not have tested our robot its design would have been a guaranteed failure, if the faster robots lost control they would shoot into the crowd of people or hit other unintended objects. It was hard to tell if these events were caused by the robots being programed to be unethical or if the physical design had failed. Either way, it is our job as the engineer to make the fail safes in our designs to accommodate for potential failure. Making fail safes for the physical design are much more secure because hardware is more difficult to manipulate than software. With cyber security still in its early development, I agree with Alan Winfield's conclusion to be weary of trying to implement ethical robots today.
