## Based on your experiences with simple DNA manipulation in this lab and reflecting on the assigned article, answer the following questions:

1. Who makes the genome editing technology?

The people making gene editing technology are researchers in the biology and genetics field as well as bioethicists to make sure the process does not become out of hand and cross ethical boundaries.

2.Who are the users of the genome editing technology?

The users of genome editing technology are prospective parents with a disease that is known to be passed onto any child they would have. In some cases genome editing is being used for therapy which borders on enhancement of the genome.

3.Who is not supposed to use the genome editing technology?

People using genome editing for enhancement purposes should not be using it because it borders on how ethical it is. This would be especially concerning in parents attempting to use genome editing for reproductive purposes and basically creating a child.

4.How can the genome editing technology cause harm?

The genome editing technology can cause harm by having side effects or off-target effects in which edits occur in the wrong position. Harm could also be caused by genome editing technology being offered to only a select group of people.

5.What solutions can be developed to avoid the harm caused by the genome editing technology or to fix the harm?

Some solutions that can be developed to avoid harm or fix the harm are conducting more research and not offering it to a selective group of people. More research needs to be done especially in terms of embryos. In addition, if germline editing is only offered to a select group of people, the wealthy, it will be problematic for the class system.

