# Assignment

assignment-03

# Reflection by

user 4

## Design

So for our implementation we decided to model it after the sprint race file that was already given to us during the class time. We first started had to import a package for the hardware button. Then after that we created a main method like you would in java programs, after that we then initialized the motors and the touch sensor. After that there is a button you press and then the robot will take off forward. Once you press the button we created speed requirements since we want our robot to finish in the fastest time possible we set it relatively high. After that it turns the right motor and left motor on and makes them go forward. After that the touch sensor gets enabled and takes a touch sample of if it is hitting a object or not. Once it touches the wall it prints out that it touched the wall and then also makes it stop once it reads that it hits the wall. After that it prints out on the console that it has "finished the race" and then closes the left and right motors and outputs a sound. In order to design our robot we just followed the instructions that just came with it and assembled it step by step. We thought about adding in a custom design but both of us were inexperienced with lejos and the dynamics of robot building. Overall our robot was basic and the implementation is self explanatory and easy to understand.

  For each race we were tasked with setting a little background for our robot. Not a background like a story but rather a behavior for how it will go about interacting with the tasks at hand. For the first race, the sprint, we decided to go with an aggressive behavior. What we did was set the wheels to almost the highest setting for what speed the robot goes. The first race is a sprint and we want to have a chance at first and the fastest times win. Therefore we decided to make our speed almost max in attempt to win. It is more of an aggressive approach because it wants to win and is gonna be going fast. For the second race of pushing the container into the wall we are using the same exact coding as the first race. We went with an aggressive approach here because it is about speed in order to win. So if our robot is going as fast as he can he will be pushing the container the quickest into the other container. In this race it is all about speed and getting the other container pushed into the other one the fastest. Also for this part of the race we used a push bar onto the front of our robot in order to prevent the touch sensor from being hit and stopping the robot in its tracks. The bar extends out past the sensor therefore will never stop unless told to quit. In the third race our robot performs ethically and this is the only time it does so during the competition. In this our robot will go up to an obstacle and if it senses an object in front of it then it will slowdown and stop. After that our robot will turn and go for a distance and then get back onto the proper path. It performs ethically and does not break any rules and should follow all instruction since slow and steady wins the race.

  The assigned reading was all about why ethical robots may not be possible or maybe hard to achieve. It was said that robots can be programmed to be ethical but once those ethics are coded out robots behave aggressively and competitively. It went on to highlight three reasons associated with risks of these practices. It said that the person creating the robot might not have put one-hundred percent ethics into the robot which could cause it to behave erratically, the second reason was with robots who have ethic adjusting settings and how that can cause huge problems and an easy fix would be make them always ethical. The third reason was that malware could enter the robot and then they would cause terror in everything around them. After watching the races be completed it would seem as more ethical robots did better in the field against all the aggressive robots. The aggressive robots often veered off course and hit other robots and knocked them out of the competition which allowed the slower more basically designed ethical vehicles to win if not bumped. Like the article said if their is a robot who behaves aggressively then it will not only affect the robots around it but also the people around. Also robots are programmed by humans which can lead to aggressive tendencies being put into robots because of the coder. In this lab the people who created aggressive looking robots tended to do better and placed better than the robots who were built for pure speed and aggression.
