Frequency analysis, which is also known as counting letters, is a useful study within the field of computer science. This is due to its function because it is being capable of outputting the frequency of letters or groups of letters in a ciphertext.

Frequency analysis is a study that can be found within our GatorMinor. You can use frequency analysis by inputting the path_to_file for each markdown assignment, an user of GatorMinor, would like to run studies on. For example, an user can enter path_to_file for assignment 1, assignment 2, and assignment 3 and run studies on each one by selecting them in the "select assignments tab" after entering the paths. Then an user can run a a frequency analysis study on all three assignments by selecting assignment 1, assignment 2, and assignment 3 in this fashion.

Now, there are three types of frequency analysis within the analysis mode of frequency analysis. There is overall, student, and question.

The "overall" type of frequency analysis will output a list of words, for each assignment, most frequently used in a hierarchical descending fashion. The most used words will be at the top of the list and the least used words will be at the bottom of the list. The amount of times each word was used will labeled be on the x-axis. An user can see this by running the overall type of frequency analysis for the three assignments. The user will see the output shows three graphs labeled assignment 1, assignment 2, and assignment 3 in the fashion described above, which shows the frequency of the words used. The most used words for assignment 1 is editing, text is the most used word for assignment 2, and robot is the most used word for assignment 3. An user can use overall frequency analysis to see what each assignment is about and if a majority of people are understanding the point of an assignment.

The "student" type of frequency analysis is very similar to the overall type of frequency analysis. It will display the same information in the same fashion. However, an user of this type of frequency analysis will be able to select as many users as he/she wants and compare the usage of words between each user. This can be seen by selecting the users you would want to compare to eachother. For example, by selecting user 19, user 1, and user 5 you can can see the frequency of what words each user used. This type of frequency analysis can show a user of GatorMinor if an assignment is similar to another submission.

The "question" type of frequency analysis will allows an user of GatorMinor to select a questions in an assignment. An user can select one questions or as many questions as they want. The output will display the most used words, for an answer, to a question that is selected. It will display the information in the same fashion, which is a table graph format. This can be useful when a GatorMinor user wants to see if submissions are understanding a certain questions or not.
