# Assignment

assignment-03

# Reflection by

user 9

## Design

We began building our robot by deciding where the motors would be placed. We knew that we wanted them as close to the centerline of the robot as well as that we wanted them either above or below the brick. We decided to place the motors above the brick which we flipped upside down. The motors being on top allowed for them to be adjusted more easily and we were able to create the space that we needed to create a gear train. We decided to flip the brick so that the screen was facing the ground so that it was easier to mount the motors above it. The brick have holes on the side opposite the screen which makes it much simpler to attach the motors. The other major design choice that we made was to fix the back wheels onto a single axle and use a front wheel to turn. Our plan was to allow for faster turns because we don't have to adjust the power to the back wheels. It also allows us to use a faster gear train because we can get more force out of two motors instead of one. In our programs, we had to find a way to keep our front wheel straight so we had it wobble back and forth to attempt to correct for any sway. We attempted to make this smarter but we ran out of time. We also had to adjust the supersonic sensor distance because we placed it very close to the front of the robot.

The first race is the sprint race so we plan on running this race ethically. The goal is to reach the wall first so we are focusing completely on that. Drive straight and drive fast is the itinerary. There is a possibility though that our bot will wander into the lanes of another robot and trigger its sonic sensor which will stop some bots short of the finish line. We did not implement this function explicitly but it may occur nonetheless. Our box pushing program is very similar to our sprint race program. The bot will attempt to push the box in a straight line without planned deviations that might interfere with the other contestants. We had to make sure that our corrections for the race would not accidentally knock over the box and make it difficult to knock it into the goal. Our aggressive program is for the obstacle race. Instead of our robot attempting to avoid the obstacles or any person or robot, we are going to speed up and try to barrel right through them until we reach the finish line. We do not care if we lose time, nor do we care if there are other bots in the way. We are just going to travel straight forward and push away anything that is in front of it. We specifically built a wedge for this reason. Also, If the race is changed to have 2 bots at a time, we would be moving different obstacles in the way of other bots which would slow them down.

The article states that unless a robot is completely sealed off from the environment and taught how to think ethically similar to a human, robots are never completely ethical. The biggest problem is security. A robot being hacked can lead to millions of dollars in damages as well as potentially lost lives. Many robots are in the same areas with people and a hacker caused accident is not something that a company wants over their head. Ethical robots are also much easier to modify because there is as much complexity associated with it. In this case then, is it better to be sophisticated and less ethical? It seems that in our races, the more ethical the robots, the better that they performed. Everyone only cared about making it to the finish line without purposely running into people. At the very least, the best performing robots were not intentionally unethical but may have become unethical. Therefore it is the intention that leads to successful robots for humanity. Security is an issue that needs to be addressed at some point but it should never hold back the rest of society from advancing. There are special cases of this such as bioweapons and nuclear weapons but for the most parts, robots can do good and I believe that they will be integral to pushing society into the future. Humans do not have to do every job. Robots can fill in gaps and increase productivity in many ways. Robotics is also a field that will replace the jobs lost by individuals as long as those individuals are willing to commit to a future full of automation.
